# Contributor License Agreement

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Tox4j ("We" or "Us").

This contributor agreement ("Agreement") documents the rights granted by
contributors to Us. To make this document effective, please sign it
electronically by following the instructions at the top of
[CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md). This is a legally binding document, so
please read it carefully before agreeing to it. The Agreement provides for
submission of Contributions to all software projects managed by Us.

## 1. Definitions

"You" means the individual who Submits a Contribution to Us.

"Contribution" means any work of authorship that is Submitted by You to Us in
which You own or assert ownership of the Copyright. If You do not own the
Copyright in the entire work of authorship, please contact Us.

"Copyright" means all rights protecting works of authorship owned or
controlled by You, including copyright, moral and neighboring rights, as
appropriate, for the full term of their existence including any extensions by
You.

"Material" means the work of authorship which is made available by Us to third
parties.  When this Agreement covers more than one software project, the
Material means the work of authorship to which the Contribution was Submitted.
After You Submit the Contribution, it may be included in the Material.

"Submit" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to Us or our representatives, including but not limited to electronic mailing
lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are
managed by, or on behalf of, Us for the purpose of discussing and improving
the Material, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or
otherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a Contribution."

"Submission Date" means the date on which You Submit a Contribution to Us.

"Effective Date" means the date You execute this Agreement or the date You
first Submit a Contribution to Us, whichever is earlier.

## 2. Grant of Rights

### 2.1 Copyright License

(a) You retain ownership of the Copyright in Your Contribution and have the
same rights to use or license the Contribution which You would have had
without entering into the Agreement.

(b) To the maximum extent permitted by the relevant law, You grant to Us a
perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free, irrevocable
license under the Copyright covering the Contribution, with the right to
sublicense such rights through multiple tiers of sublicensees, to reproduce,
modify, display, perform and distribute the Contribution as part of the
Material; provided that this license is conditioned upon compliance with
Section 2.3.

### 2.2 Patent License

For patent claims including, without limitation, method, process, and
apparatus claims which You own, control or have the right to grant, now or in
the future, You grant to Us a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
transferable, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license, with the right to
sublicense these rights to multiple tiers of sublicensees, to make, have made,
use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution and
the Contribution in combination with the Material (and portions of such
combination).  This license is granted only to the extent that the exercise of
the licensed rights infringes such patent claims; and provided that this
license is conditioned upon compliance with Section 2.3.

### 2.3 Outbound License

As a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1 and 2.2, We agree to
license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or licenses which
We are using on the Submission Date for the Material or any licenses which are
approved by the Free Software Foundation on or after the Effective Date,
including both permissive and copyleft licenses, whether or not such licenses
are subsequently disapproved (including any right to adopt any future version
of a license if permitted).

### 2.4 Moral Rights

If moral rights apply to the Contribution, to the maximum extent permitted by
law, You waive and agree not to assert such moral rights against Us or our
successors in interest, or any of our licensees, either direct or indirect.

### 2.5 Our Rights

You acknowledge that We are not obligated to use Your Contribution as part of
the Material and may decide to include any Contribution We consider
appropriate.

### 2.6 Reservation of Rights

Any rights not expressly licensed under this section are expressly reserved by
You.

## 3. Agreement

You confirm that:

(a) You have the legal authority to enter into this Agreement.

(b) You own the Copyright and patent claims covering the Contribution which
are required to grant the rights under Section 2.

(c) The grant of rights under Section 2 does not violate any grant of rights
which You have made to third parties, including Your employer. If You are an
employee, You have had Your employer approve this Agreement or sign the Entity
version of this document. If You are less than eighteen years old, please have
Your parents or guardian sign the Agreement.

(d) You have contacted tox4j-team and followed the instructions given by Us in
writing, if You do not own the Copyright in the entire work of authorship
Submitted.

## 4. Disclaimer

Except for the express warranties in section 3, the contribution is provided
"as is". More particularly, all express or implied warranties including,
without limitation, any implied warranty of merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose and non-infringement are expressly disclaimed by you to us.
To the extent that any such warranties cannot be disclaimed, such warranty is
limited in duration to the minimum period permitted by law.

## 5. Consequential Damage Waiver

To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event will you be
liable for any loss of profits, loss of anticipated savings, loss of data,
indirect, special, incidental, consequential and exemplary damages arising out
of this agreement regardless of the legal or equitable theory (contract, tort
or otherwise) upon which the claim is based.

## 6. Miscellaneous

### 6.1 Legislation

This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of Germany excluding its conflicts of law provisions. Under certain
circumstances, the governing law in this section might be superseded by the
United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods
("UN Convention") and the parties intend to avoid the application of the UN
Convention to this Agreement and, thus, exclude the application of the UN
Convention in its entirety to this Agreement.

### 6.2 Other agreements

This Agreement sets out the entire agreement between You and Us for Your
Contributions to Us and overrides all other agreements or understandings.

### 6.3 Third parties

If You or We assign the rights or obligations received through this Agreement
to a third party, as a condition of the assignment, that third party must
agree in writing to abide by all the rights and obligations in the Agreement.

### 6.4 Failure of performance

The failure of either party to require performance by the other party of any
provision of this Agreement in one situation shall not affect the right of a
party to require such performance at any time in the future. A waiver of
performance under a provision in one situation shall not be considered a
waiver of the performance of the provision in the future or a waiver of the
provision in its entirety.

### 6.5 Enforcability

If any provision of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable, such
provision will be replaced to the extent possible with a provision that comes
closest to the meaning of the original provision and which is enforceable. The
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement shall apply notwithstanding
any failure of essential purpose of this Agreement or any limited remedy to
the maximum extent possible under law.

### 6.6 Changes to the Agreement

The effective Agreement between You and Us is the most recent one up to the
Effective Date. Any later changes to the Agreement do not retroactively affect
past signatures. Signing a later revision of this Agreement at a later point
in time will void the previously signed Agreement and will retroactively
affect all past Contributions.
